# PACE

PACE is a web application built in under 24 hours consisting of a multitude of activities and interactive features. Firstly, it has a [diagnostic test](https://me.ntal-health.space/) to check if the user is experiencing any symptoms of PTSD. That way, for users who are unsure of whether they go through this mental condition are able to confirm. The site also contains various calming and self-reflecting activities for users to follow, including meditation, soothing music from two embedded playlists, journaling prompts with a space to type on, a drawing pad, and an inspirational quote generator that we coded. Along with self-activities, our website also includes interactive features. One quality is an anonymous [live chat](https://webchatws.eilla.repl.co/) feature – which we programmed ourselves using Websockets and Deno – that allows users to discuss with anyone in the in the world who is also online and voice out their opinions without revealing their identity. Another quality is the anonymous [Padlet blog](https://me.ntal-health.space/community.html), which allows users to rant, ask questions, and give advice to others.

## Inspiration

As high-school teenagers ourselves, our team experiences the stress and anxiety that accumulates throughout the week, whether this may be from the pressures of school or personal issues outside of school. However, knowing how stressful our everyday lives could be, we can not imagine the pain and agony teenagers with PTSD, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, must endure everyday. Many suffer from this mental health condition that is mainly caused by the witnessing of a terrifying event such as assault, domestic abuse, and more. While these traumatic experiences trigger flashbacks, nightmares, and anxiety, our team also believes that therapeutic devices can help relieve this stress. We also know that due to certain circumstances, there are many teenagers who do not have anyone to lean on to share their bottled-in emotions and feelings. Therefore, we have been inspired to create an interactive, remedial website that comforts these teens and lets them anonymously communicate with other victims of PTSD, showing them that they are not alone even in the loneliest, hardest times.

## How we built it

Our team’s website was designed in Canva and coded with HTML, CSS, Javascript, and React. As we brainstormed the layout, we created a wireframe on Canva and researched information for our content. We then coded the pages of our website mainly using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and collaborating on Repl.it. Although none of us had much prior experience with JS, we were eager to learn and followed some online tutorials. The random quote generator was built with a quote API and React hooks. This was also the first time any of us had learned about React hooks, so we also did some online research for this component as well.

## What's next for PACE

This is just the beginning for our web application. Our team plans to implement more therapeutic features onto our website, such as a Google Maps API that connects users to therapists nearby and provides their contact information. Another feature we will soon create is a daily mood tracker for our users to keep track of patterns in their daily lives. Last but not least, our team would like to make this website into a PWA that is convenient to use for both mobile and desktop displays.

*Built by Amy, Lauren, Soumya, and Ella, submitted to StarHacks 2021*
